what you want baby I
got what you do you know I got it all
I'm asking for little respect when you
come home hey baby and welcome back to a
neighbor's Choice radio the most
electrifying show in media where we look
to solve real problems people suffer
from you know whether it's pollution
whether it's you know trying to find new
opportunities for jobs or even medic
some of these big chronic illnesses that
people have fear of and they have
suffering through and so we try to just
roll up our sleeves talk to innovators
people who are on the front lines of
innovation and uh challenging group
think and getting real results and so
we're here with Dr Thomas sea freed who
is from Boston College and he's
dedicated his life to challenging the
reigning government sponsored and and
propped up Paradigm about cancer that
it's genetic he says no it's actually
something that can be solved through
energy Dr you you're a you're a
physicist you're in the house giving us
our perspective on on new innovation for
science do you have a question oh yes um
first of all Dr cafrey is a what an
honor to hear you in person um you know
uh this is the best cancer lesson I ever
learned okay ever learned okay um I
wanted to under I wanted to explain uh
see what I understand see if that's
correct So when you say um cancer is not
um genetic
disease so basically you mean have
nothing to do with our parents or with
our ancestors it's
about um our life individual life
ourselves is that right yeah well um
what we can inherit from our parents is
is uh risk risk so uh there are are some
genes like the braa one that you hear
about with Angelina Jolie and then you
have certain other inherited genes now
these genes put you at risk for cancer
um only if the gene damages the
mitochondria like I was saying before so
as OT warberg said there are many
secondary causes of cancer but there's
only one primary cause and that's the
damage to the respiration the
mitochondria in the cell so a if you
inherit a gene from your parents that
put you at at a risk that Gene damages
the respiration however we know that no
Gene is 100% penetrant meaning that if
everybody has that Gene they definitely
get the disease we know that braco one
is about 50% penetrant that means that
50% of the people that have the the
mutation in that Gene don't get cancer
the mutation causes cancer only if you
damage the respiration so that's that
means the gene is not a primary cause
it's a secondary cause the only primary
cause is damage to the respiration so if
that's the case you can in Institute uh
lifestyle changes to significantly
reduce the risk of getting cancer
despite the fact that you may have
inherited a risk factor from your
parents so this is this is the issue
great answer okay so now I want to go
further so um so you mentioned about uh
the the normal cell versus cancer cell
so basically the cancer cell if it's
metabolic process so being damaged by
some kind of environmental cause right
after it it damaged so what happens it
lost the cell lost its res respiration
function is that a correct yeah so what
happens this goes back so when the cell
loses its respiration it signals to the
nucleus to say okay we are suffocating
and it doesn't happen overnight like a
verberg said if the respiration is
damaged too acutely the cell will die
and of course never become cancer so
what what causes cancer is a chronic
damage to the respiration over over time
it could be you know months years you
know decades the problem is the cell
gradually loses its capacity to breathe
oxygen and begins to ferment and and
that there there's a very sophisticated
signaling process that allows some cells
to up regulate Pathways to generate
energy from fermentation this ancient
pathway now you also have to realize
that all of the cells that existed on
our planet before oxygen came into the
environment were highly proliferative
they would proliferate like crazy until
they used up the fermentable fuels in
the environment and then they would die
the cancer cell is doing the exact same
thing it's entering into a state of
unbridled proliferation which is the
definition of cancer cancer is cell
division out of control that's the
that's the medical definition of cancer
and what these cancer cells are doing is
simply falling back on this pathway that
existed in the for all cells before
oxygen came in and then and then they
would die when you took away the
fermentable fuels so what's driving the
cancer in our body is two fuels glucose
and glutamine when you take glucose and
glutamine away the cancer cells die and
and if you do it the right way you can
enhance the health of the normal cells
while killing the tumor cells without
toxicity the problem is the medical
establishment for whatever reason fails
to understand this simple biological
fact wonderful wonderful so that
explains why F fermentation process is a
very long process it's a slow process
because like wine right that's what I
think a fermentation of wine or wine
right because you lost but that's yeast
that's yeast fermentation alcohol what
we call in this called lactic acid
fermentation this is what happens when
you ferment glucose into lactic acid
you're you're you're forming lactic acid
and this causes the acidification of the
cancer micro environment this is why you
get horrible smells from cancer this is
why it smells like Rotting Flesh and all
this other stuff this is from the
fermentation metabolism you go into the
clinics and you see cancer some of these
poor people sometimes the smell from
opening up the the the the cavity is is
stifling this is from the fermentation
metabolism
so so you you automatically you already
know uh you know what these cells are
doing so the the problem is is you just
got to Simply take away their
fermentable fuels this is not a
complicated problem in fact it's so
simple it's embarrassing but the problem
is when you think the disease is caused
by gene mutations you're not thinking
about fermentation wow so we're talking
here with Dr Thomas sea freed who is a
Pioneer challenging the group think of
cancer research and finding significant
results when he focuses on diet combined
with glutamine Inhibitors which is a
cheaper drug than what's currently used
with chemo and radiation and I am
fascinated by this Dr youu you are a
physicist that challenges group think in
your field and I see a lot of resonance
with both of these uh ideas and how it
might actually apply here and again you
know we're just here to rethink these
ideas doesn't mean we have all the final
answers we want to challenge these group
things and see if maybe we can get some
new insights I we have a caller that is
from uh Mount verie and he's you're a
doctor is that correct
John uh in a matter of speaking okay
yeah go ahead orally speak orally
speaking I should say okay what's your
question my question is I mean this this
kind of makes sense to me I I can agree
with it but isn't there a certain amount
of natural degradation of the
mitochondria as we age also so they lose
some of their capability to breathe as
as we speak
great question John yes Dr CED what
would you say to that yes he's
absolutely correct in fact we die
because our mitochondria go dead and uh
that's the aging process and that's one
of the great Phenom now here here's the
situation it comes back to uh
thermodynamics it's the second law of
Thermodynamics which is called entropy
or disorder everyone on the planet will
die all things will die eventually
because we run out of energy uh because
of disorder entropy and entropy uh aging
is is is entropy and if you keep your
mitochondria healthy all you do is delay
the inevitable you don't live forever
you just going to delay the inevitable
this gentleman who just called is
absolutely right mitochondria are
responsible for the aging process but if
they're damaged too early they will they
will lead to the formation of cancer
John any other
questions no that that makes perfect
sense all things stand repeat thank you
I appreciate your call at 40791 65400
we're speaking with Dr Thomas SE freed
and we're going to hold just for a
second because on the next segment we're
going to get into some of the things
that people can learn from Dr C freed
going forward you're listening to a
neighbors's choice radio on news radio
WFLA I'll see you in a second